.TH "aardmail-miniclient" 1 "June 4, 2005"
.SH NAME
aardmail-miniclient \- client to track down connection problems
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBaardmail-miniclient\fR [\fB\-c\ \fIoption\fR\fR] [\fB\-f\ \fIcertificate\fR\fR] \fB\-h\ \fIhostname\fR\fR \fB\-s\ \fIservice\fR\fR [\fB\-t\fR\fR] [\fB\-v\ \fIlevel\fR\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
\fBaardmail-miniclient\fR is a small minimalistic client to help finding problems on getting/sending mail. It can be used to connect and talk to any text-based tcp-service. It can do an initial SSL-handshake, or initiate a SSL connection after the user typed STLS or STARTTLS. The TLS-connection for STARTTLS gets only started on positive return code, currently recognized are +OK (pop3) and 220 (SMTP).
.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
When called without arguments aardmail-miniclient will give a short overview of the available options.
.TP
.B \-c option
General option to control cryptography settings. Valid options are 0 for no encryption, 1 for TLS with exit on error (like -t), 2 for TLS with fallback to no encryption on error, 3 for TLS using starttls and exit on error (like -l) and 4 for TLS using starttls with fallback to no encryption on error.
.TP
.B \-f certificate
A PEM-formatted certificate file which is used to authentificate to the server if it asks for a certificate
.TP
.B \-h hostname
The hostname to connect to. This can be either a name resolvable via DNS or a numeric IP
.TP
.B \-s service
The service to connect to. This can be either a string which is resolvable via /etc/services or a numeric portnumber. The default is 110.
.TP
.B \-t
Use TLS and exit on error. Same like -c 1.
.TP
.B \-v level
Set the verbosity. Valid values are 0 (no logging), 1 (deadly), 2 (error), 3 (warning) and 4 (info). The default is 2. It does not matter if you specify levels bigger than 4.
.SH "BUGS"
.PP
\fBaardmail-miniclient\fR uses poll() for asynchronous IO for terminal and network and therefore does not work under Windows at the moment
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
aardmail (1).
.SH "AUTHOR"
.PP
aardmail was written by Bernd 'Aard' Wachter <bwachter@lart\&.info>. It can be obtained at \fIhttp://bwachter.lart.info/projects/aardmail/\fP
